---
layout: post
title:  "Note: How to Copy Files"
date:   2020-03-17 12:00:00
categories: PaperReading
tags: [FileSystem]
---

## Reference

> Zhan Yang, Conway Alexander, Jiao Yizheng. et. al. [How to Copy Files](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/fast20-zhan.pdf). In Proc. of USENIX FAST, 2020.

## What

Flexible cloning (logic copy) in BetrFS which is an open-source, full path indexing, and write-optimized file system. 

<!-- more -->

## Why

* The two copy method:
    * **Physical Copy**: High Latency; High space usage.
    * **Logic Copy (Copy on write)**: Low latency; Better space usage; *High Fragmentation*.
* Existing logic copy implementations like BTRFS/XFS/ZFS have large space amplification of high fragmentation.
* Space-Locality tradeoff in the inode file system:
    * Larger blocks have better locality, but have worse space efficiency;
    * Smaller blocks have worse locality, but have better space efficiency;

* **Main Problem: How to achieve space efficient/low latency / fast read / fast write in file system copy operation?**

## How

* Use $B^{\sigma}$-DAGs (directed acyclic graph) to take place of $B^{\sigma}$-Trees in BertFS.
* $B^{\sigma}$-DAGs could share data between files.
* Logical copy by adding edge to the DAGs, and pivots include prefix translations.
* Copy-on-Abundant-Write: when flushing changes, copy-on-write, and abundant unreachable data, and move pivot translation.
* Reducing copy latency by flush multi-level at once (cover the subtree), and set a `GOTO` message for the direct link. When `GOTO` flushed to target+1 level, change `GOTO` to a real pivot.


## Some Details

### BetrFS original features:

* $B^{\sigma}$-tree: write optimized key-value store like LSM tree, each flush of it applies many small changes.
* Range operations.
* Full-path indexing and renaming.

## Summary

### Strength

* A sample data structure modifies on BertFS makes copy fast and cheap while reducing the latency by a new message in the file system is very interesting.
* Complete and realistic experiments include git / tar / rsync / IMAP.

### Weakness

* The metadata storage space overhead is not measured in evaluation.