---
layout: post
title:  "Note: An Empirical Guide to the Behavior and Use of Scalable Persistent Memory"
date:   2020-07-10 12:00:00
categories: PaperReading
tags: [SGX]
---

## Reference

> Jian Yang, Juno Kim, Morteza Hoseinzadeh, Joseph Izraelevitz, Steven Swanson. [An Empirical Guide to the Behavior and Use of Scalable Persistent Memory](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/fast20-yang.pdf). In Proc. of FAST, 2020.

## What

Explore the performance properties and characteristics of Intel’s new Optane DIMM at the micro and macro level.
<!-- more -->

## Paper Summary

Current research papers concluded and made design decisions for persistent memory without detailed knowledge of how real NVDIMMs would behave or how the industry would integrate them into computer architectures.

This paper uses the intel Optane NVDIMMs to explore the performance properties and characteristics of NVDIMMs at the micro and macro level.

The Optane NVDIMM is connected with the CPU's integrated memory controller (IMC). It has memory mode (DRAM is the cache for the Optane DIMM) and application direct mode (Optane DIMM works like storage device). The Optane DIMM has a controller (include Buffer), AIT (address indirection table) cache, and AIT in Optane media. The ADR (Asynchronous DRAM Refresh) size is 4KB, the Optane controller pass data to media with 256B block.

According to test analysis, Optane is 2~3 times slower than DRAM in reading operation (especially for random read), and the write latency is masked by ADR. The Optane is optimized for reads bandwidth, not for writes, multi-thread writes much slower than DRAM (up to 8x slower). The performance highly depends on the access size.

To use Optane best, users should avoid small random accesses; Use ntstores for large writes; Limit threads accessing one NVDIMM; Avoid mixed and multi-threaded NUMA accesses.

## Strength

* The first analysis of commercial PM equipment and optimization guidelines.
* Explains the problems existing in the previous simulation-based work, and gives simple and effective solutions.

## Weakness

* Optane is a kind of PM, but other types of PM are still in the experimental stage (like PCM), the work can only be limited to this kind of equipment.

## Comments

* Perfect analysis and experimental treatment provide perfect guidelines for more efficient use of Optane.